---
layout: post
title: "CVE: An Essential Guide for Cybersecurity Practitioners"
date: 2023-05-27
description : "Unravel the intricacies of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE), illuminating its critical role in bolstering cybersecurity."

---

# What is CVE

CVE, short for **Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures**, is a list of publicly disclosed computer security flaws. When someone refers to a CVE, they mean a security flaw that's been assigned a CVE ID number.

CVE managed by the **MITRE Corporation**, a non-profit that operates federally funded research and development centers (FFRDCs), the system provides a reference-method for publicly known information-security vulnerabilities and exposures.

# How ths sytem of CVE works 

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) system works by providing unique identifiers to publicly known cybersecurity vulnerabilities. It operates through a community-driven process managed by the MITRE Corporation, with inputs from cybersecurity researchers, product vendors, and various organizations worldwide. Here's a simplified explanation of how it works:

1. **Discover**: A cybersecurity vulnerability is discovered. This could happen in a variety of ways. For instance, security researchers may discover vulnerabilities during their work, or software vendors might identify them during development or after a product release.

2. **Reporting**: The discovered vulnerability is then reported to MITRE or a CVE Numbering Authority (CNA), which are organizations authorized to assign CVE IDs to vulnerabilities affecting products within their distinct, agreed-upon scope. Large software vendors often act as CNAs for their own products. The reporter provides all necessary details about the vulnerability, such as how it can be exploited, what the impact would be, which versions of software are affected, and whether there are any known mitigations.

3. **Request**: Once the reported vulnerability is confirmed, a unique CVE Identifier (CVE ID) is assigned to it. The format of this ID is "CVE-YYYY-NNNNN", where "YYYY" is the year the ID was assigned, and "NNNNN" is a sequence number with no leading zeros.

4. **Reserve**:The ID is reserved, which is the initial state of a CVE Record.
The Reserved state means that CVE stakeholder(s) are using the CVE ID for early-stage vulnerability coordination and management, but the CNA is not yet ready to publicly disclose the vulnerability.

5. **Submut**: CVE Program participant submits the details.
Details include but are not limited to affected product(s); affected or fixed product versions; vulnerability type, root cause, or impact; and at least one public reference.

6. **Publish**: The vulnerability details, along with the CVE ID, are then published in the CVE List and made available publicly. The CVE entry includes a brief description of the vulnerability and reference links where more information can be found. This information is also disseminated to various security databases, tools, and services.


# CVE identifiers










